“Believe his Prophets”

Friday, April 1, 2016

1 Samuel 29 (KJV) - Patriarchs and Prophets Chapter 17

1 Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek: and the Israelites pitched by a fountain which is in Jezreel.

2 And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands: but David and his men passed on in the rereward with Achish.

3 Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews here? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?

4 And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he be an adversary to us: for wherewith should he reconcile himself unto his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?

5 Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?

6 Then Achish called David, and said unto him, Surely, as the Lord liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords favour thee not.

7 Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.

8 And David said unto Achish, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go fight against the enemies of my lord the king?

9 And Achish answered and said to David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.

10 Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee: and as soon as ye be up early in the morning, and have light, depart.

11 So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.


Patriarchs and Prophets 

Chapter 17 — Jacob’s Flight and Exile, part 6

All will be called to render a strict account of their ministry. The Master will demand of every shepherd, “Where is the flock that was given thee, thy beautiful flock?” Jeremiah 13:20. He that is found faithful, will receive a rich reward. “When the Chief Shepherd shall appear,” says the apostle, “ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away.” 1 Peter 5:4.

When Jacob, growing weary of Laban’s service, proposed to return to Canaan, he said to his father-in-law, “Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and to my country. Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee, and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee.” But Laban urged him to remain, declaring, “I have learned by experience that the Lord hath blessed me for thy sake.” He saw that his property was increasing under the care of his son-in-law.
Said Jacob, “It was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now increased unto a multitude.” But as time passed on, Laban became envious of the greater prosperity of Jacob, who “increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.” Laban’s sons shared their father’s jealousy, and their malicious speeches came to Jacob’s ears: He “hath taken away all that was our father’s, and of that which was our father’s hath he gotten all this glory. And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was not toward him as before.”

Jacob would have left his crafty kinsman long before but for the fear of encountering Esau. Now he felt that he was in danger from the sons of Laban, who, looking upon his wealth as their own, might endeavor to secure it by violence. He was in great perplexity and distress, not knowing which way to turn. But mindful of the gracious Bethel promise, he carried his case to God, and sought direction from Him. In a dream his prayer was answered: “Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.”

Laban’s absence afforded opportunity for departure. The flocks and herds were speedily gathered and sent forward, and with his wives, children, and servants, Jacob crossed the Euphrates, urging his way toward Gilead, on the borders of Canaan. After three days Laban learned of their flight, and set forth in pursuit, overtaking the company on the seventh day of their journey. He was hot with anger, and bent on forcing them to return, which he doubted not he could do, since his band was much the stronger. The fugitives were indeed in great peril.


God bless you, we wait for you tomorrow with the last part.