“Confiez-vous en Ses Prophètes”

Jeudi 11 de février 2016

Juges 4 (LSG) - Patriarches et Prophètes Chapitre 7


1 Les enfants d'Israël firent encore ce qui déplaît à l'Éternel, après qu'Éhud fut mort.

2 Et l'Éternel les vendit entre les mains de Jabin, roi de Canaan, qui régnait à Hatsor. Le chef de son armée était Sisera, et habitait à Haroscheth Goïm.

3 Les enfants d'Israël crièrent à l'Éternel, car Jabin avait neuf cents chars de fer, et il opprimait avec violence les enfants d'Israël depuis vingt ans.

4 Dans ce temps-là, Débora, prophétesse, femme de Lappidoth, était juge en Israël.

5 Elle siégeait sous le palmier de Débora, entre Rama et Béthel, dans la montagne d'Éphraïm; et les enfants d'Israël montaient vers elle pour être jugés.

6 Elle envoya appeler Barak, fils d'Abinoam, de Kédesch Nephthali, et elle lui dit: N'est-ce pas l'ordre qu'a donné l'Éternel, le Dieu d'Israël? Va, dirige-toi sur le mont Thabor, et prends avec toi dix mille hommes des enfants de Nephthali et des enfants de Zabulon;

7 j'attirerai vers toi, au torrent de Kison, Sisera, chef de l'armée de Jabin, avec ses chars et ses troupes, et je le livrerai entre tes mains.

8 Barak lui dit: Si tu viens avec moi, j'irai; mais si tu ne viens pas avec moi, je n'irai pas.

9 Elle répondit: J'irai bien avec toi; mais tu n'auras point de gloire sur la voie où tu marches, car l'Éternel livrera Sisera entre les mains d'une femme. Et Débora se leva, et elle se rendit avec Barak à Kédesch.

10 Barak convoqua Zabulon et Nephthali à Kédesch; dix mille hommes marchèrent à sa suite, et Débora partit avec lui.

11 Héber, le Kénien, s'était séparé des Kéniens, des fils de Hobab, beau-père de Moïse, et il avait dressé sa tente jusqu'au chêne de Tsaannaïm, près de Kédesch.

12 On informa Sisera que Barak, fils d'Abinoam, s'était dirigé sur le mont Thabor.

13 Et, depuis Haroscheth Goïm, Sisera rassembla vers le torrent de Kison tous ses chars, neuf cents chars de fer, et tout le peuple qui était avec lui.

14 Alors Débora dit à Barak: Lève-toi, car voici le jour où l'Éternel livre Sisera entre tes mains. L'Éternel ne marche-t-il pas devant toi? Et Barak descendit du mont Thabor, ayant dix mille hommes à sa suite.

15 L'Éternel mit en déroute devant Barak, par le tranchant de l'épée, Sisera, tous ses chars et tout le camp. Sisera descendit de son char, et s'enfuit à pied.

16 Barak poursuivit les chars et l'armée jusqu'à Haroscheth Goïm; et toute l'armée de Sisera tomba sous le tranchant de l'épée, sans qu'il en restât un seul homme.

17 Sisera se réfugia à pied dans la tente de Jaël, femme de Héber, le Kénien; car il y avait paix entre Jabin, roi de Hatsor, et la maison de Héber, le Kénien.

18 Jaël sortit au-devant de Sisera, et lui dit: Entre, mon seigneur, entre chez moi, ne crains point. Il entra chez elle dans la tente, et elle le cacha sous une couverture.

19 Il lui dit: Donne-moi, je te prie, un peu d'eau à boire, car j'ai soif. Elle ouvrit l'outre du lait, lui donna à boire, et le couvrit.

20 Il lui dit encore: Tiens-toi à l'entrée de la tente, et si l'on vient t'interroger en disant: Y a-t-il ici quelqu'un? tu répondras: Non.

21 Jaël, femme de Héber, saisit un pieu de la tente, prit en main le marteau, s'approcha de lui doucement, et lui enfonça dans la tempe le pieu, qui pénétra en terre. Il était profondément endormi et accablé de fatigue; et il mourut.

22 Comme Barak poursuivait Sisera, Jaël sortit à sa rencontre et lui dit: Viens, et je te montrerai l'homme que tu cherches. Il entra chez elle, et voici, Sisera était étendu mort, le pieu dans la tempe.

23 En ce jour, Dieu humilia Jabin, roi de Canaan, devant les enfants d'Israël.

24 Et la main des enfants d'Israël s'appesantit de plus en plus sur Jabin, roi de Canaan, jusqu'à ce qu'ils eussent exterminé Jabin, roi de Canaan.


Patriarches et Prophètes 

Chapitre 7 — Le déluge, partie 5

For seven days after Noah and his family entered the ark, there appeared no sign of the coming storm. During this period their faith was tested. It was a time of triumph to the world without. The apparent delay confirmed them in the belief that Noah’s message was a delusion, and that the Flood would never come. Notwithstanding the solemn scenes which they had witnessed—the beasts and birds entering the ark, and the angel of God closing the door—they still continued their sport and revelry, even making a jest of these signal manifestations of God’s power. They gathered in crowds about the ark, deriding its inmates with a daring violence which they had never ventured upon before.

But upon the eighth day dark clouds overspread the heavens. There followed the muttering of thunder and the flash of lightning. Soon large drops of rain began to fall. The world had never witnessed anything like this, and the hearts of men were struck with fear. All were secretly inquiring, “Can it be that Noah was in the right, and that the world is doomed to destruction?” Darker and darker grew the heavens, and faster came the falling rain. The beasts were roaming about in the wildest terror, and their discordant cries seemed to moan out their own destiny and the fate of man. Then “the fountains of the great deep” were “broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.” Water appeared to come from the clouds in mighty cataracts. Rivers broke away from their boundaries, and overflowed the valleys. Jets of water burst from the earth with indescribable force, throwing massive rocks hundreds of feet into the air, and these, in falling, buried themselves deep in the ground.

The people first beheld the destruction of the works of their own hands. Their splendid buildings, and the beautiful gardens and groves where they had placed their idols, were destroyed by lightning from heaven, and the ruins were scattered far and wide. The altars on which human sacrifices had been offered were torn down, and the worshipers were made to tremble at the power of the living God, and to know that it was their corruption and idolatry which had called down their destruction.

As the violence of the storm increased, trees, buildings, rocks, and earth were hurled in every direction. The terror of man and beast was beyond description. Above the roar of the tempest was heard the wailing of a people that had despised the authority of God. Satan himself, who was compelled to remain in the midst of the warring elements, feared for his own existence. He had delighted to control so powerful a race, and desired them to live to practice their abominations and continue their rebellion against the Ruler of heaven. He now uttered imprecations against God, charging Him with injustice and cruelty. Many of the people, like Satan, blasphemed God, and had they been able, they would have torn Him from the throne of power. Others were frantic with fear, stretching their hands toward the ark and pleading for admittance. But their entreaties were in vain. Conscience was at last aroused to know that there is a God who ruleth in the heavens. They called upon Him earnestly, but His ear was not open to their cry. In that terrible hour they saw that the transgression of God’s law had caused their ruin. Yet while, through fear of punishment, they acknowledged their sin, they felt no true contrition, no abhorrence of evil. They would have returned to their defiance of Heaven, had the judgment been removed. So when God’s judgments shall fall upon the earth before its deluge by fire, the impenitent will know just where and what their sin is—the despising of His holy law. Yet they will have no more true repentance than did the old-world sinners.

Some in their desperation endeavored to break into the ark, but the firm-made structure withstood their efforts. Some clung to the ark until they were borne away by the surging waters, or their hold was broken by collision with rocks and trees. The massive ark trembled in every fiber as it was beaten by the merciless winds and flung from billow to billow. The cries of the beasts within expressed their fear and pain. But amid the warring elements it continued to ride safely. Angels that excel in strength were commissioned to preserve it.

The beasts, exposed to the tempest, rushed toward man, as though expecting help from him. Some of the people bound their children and themselves upon powerful animals, knowing that these were tenacious of life, and would climb to the highest points to escape the rising waters. Some fastened themselves to lofty trees on the summit of hills or mountains; but the trees were uprooted, and with their burden of living beings were hurled into the seething billows. One spot after another that promised safety was abandoned. As the waters rose higher and higher, the people fled for refuge to the loftiest mountains. Often man and beast would struggle together for a foothold, until both were swept away.


 Dieu te bénisse, nous t'attendons demain avec la sixième partie.